new caas page (#3329)
hyperledger/fabric: docs/source/cc_basic.md

# Running External Chaincode Builders

> Fabric v2.4.1 external chaincode builders provide a practical approach to running smart contracts by enabling the peer to run external (to itself) commands to manage chaincode. By comparison, the earlier [chaincode as an external service](cc_service.html) method required the peer to orchestrate the complete lifecycle of the chaincode. This required the peer to have access to the Docker Daemon to create images and to start containers. Java, Node.js and Go chaincode frameworks were explicitly known to the peer, including how they should be built and started.

Reviewer: The earlier method is not [chaincode as an external service].
The earlier method is covered in the tutorial "Deploying a smart contract to a channel". Therefore this tutorial should come after the "Deploying a smart contract to a channel" tutorial in the TOC.

Author: done.

> As a result, the [chaincode as an external service](cc_service.html) method made it challenging to deploy chaincode into Kubernetes (K8s), or other environments where access to the Docker Daemon is restricted, and to run chaincode in any form of debug mode. Additionally, the code was usually rebuilt by the peer, requiring an external internet connection and introducing some uncertainty about which dependencies had been installed.

Reviewer: No... again, it's the traditional chaincode deployment process that is challenging in Kubernetes. The chaincode as a service pattern resolves the challenges.

Author: done.

> The Fabric v2.4.1 external chaincode builders method does require an administrator to orchestrate the chaincode build and deployment phase. Although this creates an additional step, it provides administrators with control over the process. The peer still requires a 'chaincode package' to be installed, but with no code - only information about where the chaincode is hosted is installed (such as hostname, port, and TLS configuration).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The chaincode as a service method does require an administrator to orchestrate the chaincode build and deployment phase. Although this creates an additional step, it provides administrators with control over the process. The peer still requires a 'chaincode package' to be installed, but with no code - only information about where the chaincode is hosted is installed (such as hostname, port, and TLS configuration).
```

Author: done.

## Fabric v2.4.1 Improvements

The test network uses the latest Fabric release (v2.4.1), which facilitates using chaincode as a service:

- The Docker image for the peer contains a preconfigured builder for chaincode-as-a-service, named 'ccaasbuilder'. This removes the prior requirement to build your own external builder and repackage and configure the peer.
- The `ccaasbuilder` applications are included in the binary tgz archive download for use in other circumstances. The `sampleconfig/core.yaml` is updated to refer to 'ccaasbuilder'.
- The Fabric v2.4.1 Java chaincode removes the requirement to write a custom bootstrap main class (as implemented in the Node.js chaincode and planned for the go chaincode).

> (Note this core functionality is also available in earlier releases, but requires more configuration.)

Reviewer: Please be specific about "more configuration".

Reviewer 2: The more configuration would refer to 
- Writing the external chaincode code builder binaries
- Configuring the core.yaml correctly

Author: Done.

```bash
cd test-network
./network.sh up createChannel
```

Variants of the next command, such as to use CouchDB or CAs, can be used without affecting the chaincode-as-a-service feature. The three keys steps are as follows, in no required order:

1. Build a Docker image of the chaincode package, which contains information for determining where the chaincode containers (hosting one or more contracts) are running. Both `/asset-transfer-basic/chaincode-typescript` and `/asset-transfer-basic/chaincode-java` have been updated with Docker files.
2. Install, approve, and commit a chaincode definition; these commands are run regardless of whether external chaincode builders are used. The chaincode package contains connection information (hostname, port, TLS certificates) only, with no code.
3. Start the Docker container(s) containing the contract.

The containers must be running before the first transaction is committed by the peer. This could be on the `commit` if the `initRequired` flag is set.

This sequence can be run as follows:

```bash
./network.sh deployCCAAS  -ccn basicts -ccp ../asset-transfer-basic/chaincode-typescript
```

> This is similar to the `deployCC` command in that it specifies the name and path. But it also requires the port for the chaincode container to use. Because each container is on the `fabric-test` network, changing the port can avoid collisions with other chaincode containers.

Reviewer: "it also requires the port for the chaincode container to use" makes it sound like deployCCAAS will take the port as an argument, but there is no such argument.

Reviewer 2: I think the comment there is a left-over from a point when there was a port argument. 

It is worth making the point that you need to aware that if you run multiple services, you need to remember that the ports will need to change.

Reviewer 2: I think the comment there is a left-over from a point when there was a port argument. 

It is worth making the point that you need to aware that if you run multiple services, you need to remember that the ports will need to change.

Author: done.

# Running Chaincode as a Service on the Test Network

> The Fabric v2.4.1 chaincode-as-a-service feature is a novel, practical approach to running smart contracts. By comparison, the earlier method required the peer to orchestrate the complete lifecycle of the chaincode. This required the peer to have access to the Docker Daemon to create images, and to start containers. Java, Node.js and Go chaincode frameworks were explicitly known to the peer, including how they should be built and started.

Reviewer 2: wouldn't say it was particular novel :-)

Author: ok sure ;) ... I think you had useful and practical, which seem similar.

> As a result, the earlier method made it challenging to deploy chaincode into Kubernetes (K8s) style environments, and to run chaincode in any form of debug mode. Additionally, the code was rebuilt by the peer, introducing a degree of uncertainty about which dependencies had been installed.

Reviewer 2: ..or other environments where access to the Docker Daemon is restricted. 

Would add 'usually rebuilt' as there are some specific cases where you can avoid this happening.

Reviewer 2: Also - in the case of rebuilding it often needs internet access which may not always be available.

Author: ok.

- Single stepping in a debugger is likely to trigger the default Fabric transaction timeout value of 30 seconds. Increase the time that the chaincode has to complete transactions, to 300 seconds, by adding  `CORE_CHAINCODE_EXECUTETIMEOUT=300s` to the environment options for each peer in the `test-network/docker/docker-composer-test-net.yml` file.
- In the `docker run` command in the previous section, the test-network `-d` default option has been replaced with `-it`. This change runs the Docker container in the foreground and not in detached mode.

The following prerequisites apply to debugging Node.js:

- Port 9229 is forwarded. However, this is the debug port used by Node.js.
- `-e DEBUG=true` will trigger the node runtime to be started in debug mode. This is encoded in the `docker/docker-entrypoint.sh` script, which **for security purposes, should be considered for removal from production images**.
- If you are using TypeScript, ensure that the TypeScript has been compiled with `sourcemaps`; otherwise, a debugger will have difficulty matching up the source code.

The following prerequisites apply to debugging Java:

> - Port 800 is forwarded, which is the debug port for the JVM.

Reviewer 2: 8000

Author: ok
